



November 2024

SMA DEMAND CONJOINT FOLLOW-UP

     HCP DISCUSSION GUIDE



Drug Safety Notes:

Research is focused on Evrysdi formulation that is currently not available. Most/all comments will be perceptions of the new product based on the product profile shown.  Only references to the existing Evrysdi formulation will be reportable.

A number of questions in this questionnaire use a 1-7 sliding scale. We consider ratings of 1-3 as negative/weak (potentially reportable), 4 as neutral, and 5-7 as strong/positive.

INTRODUCTION							                                   		          

Thank you for agreeing to take part in this interview, which will last approximately 60 minutes.  During this discussion, I'd like to obtain your thoughts and feedback on Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA).  



Review Logistics with Respondent: 

Independent marketing research firm – no vested interest in responses, therefore, be frank 

Information discussed will be kept strictly confidential 

Members of the research team listening (when appropriate) 

No right or wrong answers – opinions from their own perspectives based on individual experiences 

Recording of interview for analysis purposes 



Different people sometimes respond in different ways to the same medicine, and some side effects may not be discovered until many people have used a medicine over a period of time.  For this reason, we are now required to pass on to our client, who is a pharmaceutical company, details of any side effects/product complaints related to their own products that are mentioned during the course of market research.   

 

Although what you say will, of course, be treated in confidence, should you mention during the discussion a side effect when you, or someone you know, became ill after taking one of our client’s medicines, or a problem you have had with one of our client’s medicines, we will need to report this so that they can learn more about the safety of their medicines.  Everything else you say during the course of the interview will continue to remain confidential, and you will still have the option to remain anonymous if you wish.  

 

Are you happy to proceed with the interview on this basis? (If no, end the interview here) 



Throughout this discussion, please focus on your general patient population and not on any specific patients. As we are talking today, please avoid discussing any particular patient experience with any medication. We are interested in your overall experiences and opinions, rather than specific experiences.



US ADVERSE EVENT DISCLAIMER

We are required to pass on to our client details of adverse events and product technical complaints that are mentioned during the course of market research. Although what you say will, of course, be treated in confidence, should you raise during the discussion an adverse event or product technical complaint in an individual or group of individuals, we will need to report this.



In such a situation you will be asked whether or not you are willing to waive the confidentiality given to you under the Market Research Codes of Conduct specifically in relation to that adverse event or product technical complaint. Everything else you say during the course of our discussion will continue to remain confidential, and you will still have the option to remain anonymous if you so wish.  Are you happy to participate in the interview on this basis?  

[YES/NO; IF NO, THANK AND END INTERVIEW]

BACKGROUND				                               					          

This should be a brief warm-up and introduction. Allow for some discussion but maintain control and do not go into too much detail.



Please briefly introduce yourself and tell us about the place where you work.

Confirm, specialty, years in practice, academic vs. community, and SMA COE affiliation if not mentioned.

What, if anything, is unique about your patient population?

Describe the overall SMA patient population that you see.

Number of patients managed

Age range

     At a high level, what is your typical approach to treating SMA? 

Do you have any preferred treatments? Why? PROBE on likes and dislikes of DMTs

CURRENT AWARENESS AND PERCEPTIONS OF TREATMENTS IN DEVELOPMENT	                            

Have you heard of any new formulation or dosing options for existing SMA treatment that are being developed? If yes, ASK: what new formulation or dosing options have you heard of?



DISPLAY NEW TREATMENT DESCRIPTIONS (shown below):

Which of the following treatments in development are you aware of?

1

Evrysdi Tablet Formulation: Evrysdi tablet formulation for 5 mg dose

2

DEVOTE: Higher dose Spinraza in patients with SMA

3

STEER: Zolgensma in patients with Type 2 SMA, aged 2 – 17 years

4

RESILIENT: taldefgrobep alfa (myostatin inhibitor) in combination with Evrysdi or Spinraza



REPEAT QUESTIONS 2-5 FOR NEW TREATMENTS 1-3 (Tablet, DEVOTE, STEER)

What do you know about [INSERT new formulation or dosing option]? What are your initial thoughts?

Where did you learn about [INSERT new formulation or dosing option]?

What is your level of interest in [INSERT new formulation or dosing option]?

Which of your SMA patients would benefit most from [INSERT new formulation or dosing option]?

How much of an impact do you think the availability of [INSERT new formulation or dosing option] will have on your prescribing and why?



ASK FOR NEW TREATMENT 4 (RESILIENT TRIAL)

If approved, how will this combination therapy be incorporated into the treatment algorithm? 

How will this impact your use of Evrysdi?



ROTATE ORDER OF SECTION V AND SECTION VI. 

EVRYSDI TABLET PRODUCT PROFILE REVIEW 						                           

Here is some information about a new formulation of Evrysdi for SMA, the Evrysdi Tablet. For the remainder of this interview, please assume that any claims made are supported by valid clinical studies published in reputable journals and the Evrysdi Tablet is approved and reimbursed.



DISPLAY EVRYSDI TABLET PROFILE. ALLOW REVIEW BEFORE DISCUSSION.



What is your overall impression of the hypothetical Evrysdi Tablet?

Positive/Negative and why?

What questions do you have about the product?

Do you think this potential tablet formulation could address any gaps or unmet needs with existing SMA treatments? (Potential AE if comparison made to existing Evrysdi formulation)

What information catches your interest most? Why?

How effective do you feel the Evrysdi Tablet is? Why? What features make you feel that way? (Potential AE if comparison made to existing Evrysdi formulation)

Is there anything missing that you need to know about the Evrysdi Tablet’s efficacy? 

How safe do you feel the Evrysdi Tablet is? Why? What words or phrases make you feel that way? (Potential AE if comparison made to existing Evrysdi formulation)

Is there anything missing that you need to know about the Evrysdi Tablet’s safety? 

The Evrysdi Tablet can be administered in two ways. What is your initial reaction to each mode of administration? 

How do you feel about the ability of your SMA patients that are at least 44lbs to swallow the tablet? LISTEN FOR BOTH POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE COMMENTARY (Potential AE if comparison made to existing formulation)

How do you feel about the process of the second method (disperse in water and drink)? LISTEN FOR BOTH POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE COMMENTARY

How, if at all, would it change your perception if the tablet was only able to be swallowed and could not be dispersed in water and swallowed?

PROBE on impact of patient eligibility and impact on perception of Evrysdi if tablet can only be swallowed

PROBE on how respondent feels about the inability to take mixture through feeding tube 

Who do you see as candidates for the Evrysdi tablet? Why? PROBE on inclusion/exclusion criteria (over 2 years old, 44+ lbs, Evrysdi fixed dose) and bulbar function.

Who would not be a candidate for the Evrysdi tablet? Why? (Potential AE)

Would you proactively inform your SMA patients that the Evrysdi tablet is now available? Why or why not? PROBE on Untreated vs. Spinraza User vs. Evrysdi User

Would you proactively switch any of your patients to the Evrysdi Tablet if it were offered today? MODERATOR NOTE: ASK AS IS FOR THE FIRST FEW INTERVIEWS - IF HCPs CONTINUE TO SAY THEY WOULD NOT SWITCH NON-EVRYSDI USERS, JUST ASK OF EVRYSDI PATIENTS

What are the main reasons you would offer the Evrysdi Tablet to your patients?

Which patients would you switch their current treatment to the Evrysdi Tablet? How would the method of administration affect your decision? 

Current Evrysdi users (Potential AE)

Current Spinraza users

Untreated (previously treated)

Untreated (never treated)

Consider your future SMA patients who are newly diagnosed and looking to initiate treatment. Do you think your use of Evrysdi in new patients will increase, decrease, or stay the same given the availability of the Tablet? Why?

PROBE if increase: To what extent do you feel your overall use of Evrysdi would increase and why? For which new patients? PROBE on age, type, ability, etc.



COMPETITIVE COMPARISON TO OTHER TREATMENTS IN DEVELOPMENT		 

Now, I’d like to focus on the DEVOTE clinical trial outcomes for High Dose Spinraza. We’ve created several summary slides highlighting the DEVOTE Part B outcomes and I’d like you to take some time to review the results before we discuss them.



DISPLAY FULL DEVOTE RESULTS. ALLOW REVIEW BEFORE DISCUSSION.



What is your overall impression of the DEVOTE trial findings?

Positive/Negative and why?

What questions do you have about High Dose Spinraza?

Do you think this potential dosing increase could address any gaps or unmet needs with existing SMA treatments? (Potential AE if comparison made to existing Evrysdi formulation)

What information catches your interest most? Why?



DISPLAY DEVOTE TRIAL DESIGN

Prior to this interview, were you aware of the trial design changes highlighted on the Trial Design slide?

What was/is your initial reaction to these changes? 

How, if at all, do these changes affect your overall perceptions of this clinical trial? 

How do these changes impact the way you interpret DEVOTE trial outcomes?



DISPLAY PLASMA NfL LEVEL OUTCOMES

What are your initial thoughts about the information shown here? 

What is the data telling you? 

Do you feel that these changes in Plasma NfL are likely to translate to clinical or functional benefits for patients? Why or why not?

What information or data is most important to you? Why?  



DISPLAY FUNCTIONAL OUTCOMES (INFANTILE AND LATER ONSET) 

What are your initial thoughts about the information shown here? 

What is the data telling you? 

How impactful are the changes in functional endpoints when comparing High Dose Spinraza to matched sham controls from ENDEAR/CHERISH trials?

How impactful are the changes in functional endpoints when comparing the active control arm to the higher dose of Spinraza?



DISPLAY SURVIVAL DATA 

What are your initial thoughts about the information shown here? 

What is the data telling you? 

The graph on the left shows an approximate 30% reduction of risk when comparing high dose to the current dose of Spinraza, though this finding was not statistically significant. Is this outcome still clinically meaningful to you? Why or why not?

The graph on the right shows a directional increase in overall survival when High Dose is compared to current dose, though similarly to EFS, this increase is not statistically significant. Do you feel differently about the clinical meaning of this outcome in comparison to the EFS outcome?



DISPLAY SAFETY DATA 

How safe do you feel High Dose Spinraza is? Why? What words or phrases make you feel that way? (Potential AE if comparison made to existing Evrysdi formulation)

Is there anything missing that you need to know about High Dose Spinraza’s safety? 



DISPLAY TRIAL FEATURE IMPACT SCALE (shown below)

On a 7-point scale, where 1=No Impact At All and 7=Extreme Impact, how impactful are each of these trial outcomes/features on your overall perception of High Dose Spinraza?







No Impact At All

1

2

3

4

5

6

Extreme Impact 

7

1

Biomarkers

(Plasma NfL Levels)















2

Functional Endpoints (CHOP-INTEND, HINE-2, HFMSE, RULM Scores)















3

Survival Outcomes (Event-Free Survival / Overall Survival)















4

Safety Outcomes















5

Comparator Change 



















Who do you see as candidates for High Dose Spinraza? Why? 

Who would not be a candidate for High Dose Spinraza? Why? 

Would you proactively inform your SMA patients that High Dose Spinraza is now available? Why or why not? PROBE on Untreated vs. Spinraza User vs. Evrysdi User 

Would you proactively switch any of your patients to High Dose Spinraza if it were offered today?

What are the main reasons you would offer High Dose Spinraza to your patients?

Which patients would you switch their current Tx to High Dose Spinraza? 

Current Evrysdi users (Potential AE)

Current Spinraza users

Untreated (previously treated)

Untreated (never treated)

For [INSERT USER GROUP ABOVE] patients that you do not think are good candidates, in what circumstances, if any, would you consider switching them to High Dose? 

Consider your future SMA patients who are newly diagnosed and looking to initiate treatment. Do you think your use of Spinraza in new patients will increase, decrease, or stay the same given the availability of High Dose Spinraza? Why?

PROBE if increase: To what extent do you feel your overall use of Spinraza would increase and why? For which new patients? PROBE on age, type, ability, etc.



MODERATOR NOTE: Instruct respondents that for Zolgensma for those ages 2-17 years-old, please assume similar safety, efficacy, and access as current indications.

Who do you see as candidates for Zolgensma indicated for 2- to 17-year-olds? Why? 

Who would not be a candidate for Zolgensma indicated for 2- to 17-year-olds? Why? 

Would you proactively inform your SMA patients that Zolgensma indicated for 2- to 17-year-olds is now available? Why or why not? PROBE on Untreated vs. Spinraza User vs. Evrysdi User

Would you proactively prescribe any of your patients Zolgensma indicated for 2- to 17-year-olds if it were offered today?

Which patients would you prescribe Zolgensma indicated for 2- to 17-year-olds? 

Current Evrysdi users (Potential AE)

Current Spinraza users

Untreated (previously treated)

Untreated (never treated)

What are the main reasons you would offer Zolgensma indicated for 2- to 17-year-olds to your patients?



Now, let’s bring up your expected future prescribing change if these three new treatments become available in the future that we have pulled from recent research you participated in [DISPLAY PRESCRIBING CHANGE RESPONSE TABLE, shown below]. Now that you have reviewed the Tablet product profile and DEVOTE outcomes in more detail, would anything change? Why/Why not?

Would the patients you would switch to the Evrysdi tablet change now that you have reviewed the product profile in detail? IF YES, PROBE on current Evrysdi users, current Spinraza users, untreated (previously treated), and untreated (never treated).

Would the patients you would switch to High Dose Spinraza change now that you have reviewed the product profile in detail? IF YES, PROBE on current Evrysdi users, current Spinraza users, untreated (previously treated), and untreated (never treated).



 

 

ORIGINAL

% of SMA Patients

NEW % of SMA Patients

1

Evrysdi (risdiplam) 

 

 

2

Spinraza (nusinersen) 

 

 

3

Zolgensma now indicated for age 0-17 (onasemnogene aberparvovec) 

 

 

4

Evrysdi (risdiplam) in combination with Zolgensma (onasemnogene aberparvovec) 

 

 

5

Spinraza (nusinersen) in combination with Zolgensma (onasemnogene aberparvovec) 

 

 

6

Clinical Trial 

 

 

7

Other 

 

 

8

Evrysdi Tablet 

 

 

9

High Dose Spinraza 

 

 



THANK AND CONCLUDE  									                           

SECTION GOAL: Wrap up and ask any outstanding questions.

Any last comments?

Thank and conclude













